README.md, before:

# CD/CI Tutorial Sample Application

## Description

This sample Python REST API application was written for a tutorial on implementing Continuous Integration and Delivery pipelines.

It demonstrates how to:

 * Write a basic REST API using the [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org) microframework
 * Basic database operations and migrations using the Flask wrappers around [Alembic](https://bitbucket.org/zzzeek/alembic) and [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org)
 * Write automated unit tests with [unittest](https://docs.python.org/2/library/unittest.html)

Also:

 * How to use [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)

Related article: https://medium.com/rockedscience/docker-ci-cd-pipeline-with-github-actions-6d4cd1731030

## Requirements

 * `Python 3.8`
 * `Pip`
 * `virtualenv`, or `conda`, or `miniconda`

The `psycopg2` package does require `libpq-dev` and `gcc`.
To install them (with `apt`), run:

```sh
$ sudo apt-get install libpq-dev gcc
```

## Installation

With `virtualenv`:

```sh
$ python -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

With `conda` or `miniconda`:

```sh
$ conda env create -n ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app python=3.8
$ source activate ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Optional: set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to a valid SQLAlchemy connection string. Otherwise, a local SQLite database will be created.

Initalize and seed the database:

```sh
$ flask db upgrade
$ python seed.py
```

## Running tests

Run:

```sh
$ python -m unittest discover
```

## Running the application

### Running locally

Run the application using the built-in Flask server:

```sh
$ flask run
```

### Running on a production server

Run the application using `gunicorn`:

```sh
$ pip install -r requirements-server.txt
$ gunicorn app:app
```

To set the listening address and port, run:

```
$ gunicorn app:app -b 0.0.0.0:8000
```

## Running on Docker

Run:

```
$ docker build -t ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app:latest .
$ docker run -d -p 8000:8000 ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app:latest
```

## Deploying to Heroku

Run:

```sh
$ heroku create
$ git push heroku master
$ heroku run flask db upgrade
$ heroku run python seed.py
$ heroku open
```

or use the automated deploy feature:

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

For more information about using Python on Heroku, see these Dev Center articles:

 - [Python on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/categories/python)

Commit message:

Add build status badge to README
Added build status badge for master branch.

README.md, after:

# CD/CI Tutorial Sample Application
Status of build on master branch:
[![Build Status](https://vito-fordless-connectedly.ngrok-free.dev/buildStatus/icon?job=CICDPeEx+app%2Fmaster)](https://vito-fordless-connectedly.ngrok-free.dev/job/CICDPeEx%20app/job/master/)

## Description

This sample Python REST API application was written for a tutorial on implementing Continuous Integration and Delivery pipelines.

It demonstrates how to:

 * Write a basic REST API using the [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org) microframework
 * Basic database operations and migrations using the Flask wrappers around [Alembic](https://bitbucket.org/zzzeek/alembic) and [SQLAlchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org)
 * Write automated unit tests with [unittest](https://docs.python.org/2/library/unittest.html)

Also:

 * How to use [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions)

Related article: https://medium.com/rockedscience/docker-ci-cd-pipeline-with-github-actions-6d4cd1731030

## Requirements

 * `Python 3.8`
 * `Pip`
 * `virtualenv`, or `conda`, or `miniconda`

The `psycopg2` package does require `libpq-dev` and `gcc`.
To install them (with `apt`), run:

```sh
$ sudo apt-get install libpq-dev gcc
```

## Installation

With `virtualenv`:

```sh
$ python -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

With `conda` or `miniconda`:

```sh
$ conda env create -n ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app python=3.8
$ source activate ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Optional: set the `DATABASE_URL` environment variable to a valid SQLAlchemy connection string. Otherwise, a local SQLite database will be created.

Initalize and seed the database:

```sh
$ flask db upgrade
$ python seed.py
```

## Running tests

Run:

```sh
$ python -m unittest discover
```

## Running the application

### Running locally

Run the application using the built-in Flask server:

```sh
$ flask run
```

### Running on a production server

Run the application using `gunicorn`:

```sh
$ pip install -r requirements-server.txt
$ gunicorn app:app
```

To set the listening address and port, run:

```
$ gunicorn app:app -b 0.0.0.0:8000
```

## Running on Docker

Run:

```
$ docker build -t ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app:latest .
$ docker run -d -p 8000:8000 ci-cd-tutorial-sample-app:latest
```

## Deploying to Heroku

Run:

```sh
$ heroku create
$ git push heroku master
$ heroku run flask db upgrade
$ heroku run python seed.py
$ heroku open
```

or use the automated deploy feature:

[![Deploy](https://www.herokucdn.com/deploy/button.svg)](https://heroku.com/deploy)

For more information about using Python on Heroku, see these Dev Center articles:

 - [Python on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/categories/python)
